Ok so welcome back.
Let's go ahead and
take a look at the
continue, so we use
continue when we
want to skip one loop
iteration so, in the
example that I am
about to write, we will want to print out
all numbers between one and 20 except
for those that are
divisible by three
so they can be divided
by three without
that what does it mean that a number can
be divided by three?
well nine can be divided
by three 9/3 is
basically three three
times three is 9 but 10
is not divisible by three because then
divided by three is three with the
remainder of one, so there is a remainder
that is greater than 0 that is basically
not zero than the number is not
divisible by three only without the
remainder can you actually state that
the number is divisible by three you
will see what I
mean by this in an
example so how can
we basically achieve
this? how can we do this check?
well we
can use the modulus
operator which will
return the remainder when dividing two
numbers to see if the number is
divisible by three we can do the
following the pseudocode
let me just make an example
with the pseudocode.
Ok we will write
some sort of an if
statement and we will define
a condition in there so it will go like
this, so n modulus three and we will
check whether this is equal to 0 or not
so if it is equal to 0 then n is
divisible by three if n it is some sort of
a number, if it is not equal
to 0, if it is not the same as zero so to
say then it is not divisible by three
and in such a way we will verify to
check with their
number is divisible
by three or not so
in case that is not
divisible by 3 wait
Ok so in case that it
is divisible by three we will want to
skip that one got
confused a little bit
here at my notes but
soon enough you
will see an example
how this is intended
to work so we will
recycle a little bit
of the code here we will take the for
loop but unfortunately we will have to
delete everything
here and here and ok
so we can rework we
can modify this one
so we will leave the I to be equal to
one and we will change this to 20 and
iteration will remain
the same so let's
go let's go ahead and
begin the numbers
will iterate from 1,1
included to twenty
and twenty included
so we will write
something like this :if, I,  modulus
three is the same as
0, then I would like
you to skip so continue
semicolon skip
this iteration and go to the next one so
continued will skip this current
iteration in the
loop and we'll go to
the next one, so this
situation is one
it will skip one and
it will go to the next
iteration which is 2.
Ok so down below std
colon colon, cout, perhaps I should hit enter here,
cout is not part of the if
statement I've placed curly brackets
in the if statement because I stated before
you're not require curly brackets if
there was only one statement down below it
ok so we should print
out I and std, colon
colon, endl, ok so you
will see this will
actually print out all the numbers
between one and 20 that are except for
those that are
actually divisible by
three so here it
states if divisible by
3 continue so skip the current iteration
else you will basically finished this
except there is no else they've been
there is no need for
it so let's go ahead
and build and run
this, there we go, so
123 is not here because three is
divisible by three
four five six is not
here it's the visible by 3, 789 not here
12 not here 14, 15 not here
16 17 18 is gone 19
is here, 20 is here
so you can see all
the numbers that are
actually divisible by three have been admited here, those iterations have been
skipped so all the
iterations where I
this integer was
actually divisible
by 3 the continue, this condition evaluated to true the continue
statement was executed and this piece of the
code, was never reached because it went
into the loop, back into the loop and the
current iteration from this point
onwards was skipped
so if in this
situation I had
something before the if
statement that would have been executed
but everything after to continue
statement will not be executed rather
instead it will go back to next
iteration in the for loop, we can just go
ahead and take a look at the another
example let me just terminate this
program in the background
kinda not a fan of the separate window
like it in the Eclipse that you know I
have the console
embedded into the id and
not as a separate
window so it's a lot
easier to run and
terminate a program but
anyway let's go ahead
and go back to
this so let's take
a look at another
example let's modify
the previous to
print out numbers
from twenty to one so
reverse the order
except for those that
are not divisible by 3 I would advise
you sorry just got something in
my throat. I would advise you to
actually go ahead
and try to do this for yourself
prior to actually watching me how to do
it because you really don't need to use
anything that we
haven't learned as
does far and it just
takes a few simple
modifications in order
to make it work
if you want to pause
the video if not
just be with me for a sec and we will
do it in no time
the first thing that you will need to do
is reverse this, so we will begin from
20 and we will be iterating in reverse,
so we will be subtracting one them one
at a time and here you will have one and
here you will have greater or equal to
one so far as long
as I is greater or
equal to 1 beginning
from twenty take
one away from it so
each iteration this
will be lesser by one
so it will be 19, 19
will be less or equal to 1 18 will be
sorry
20 will be greater or equal to 1, 19
will be greater or equal to 1
18 will be greater or equal to 1
and once it reaches 1 it will still be
equal to 1 and once it reaches zero it
will no longer be greater or equal to 1
and the loop will terminate as this
condition will be evaluated to false.
Anyway so now we want
to continue ahead
and say if I is
divisible by three we
want to skip the
iteration so it'll
continue this will
get printed out and
that's it but you
know we wanted to
actually reverse this
part as well as I
have stated so except for those
numbers that are not
divisible by three
so if a number is not
we would like it to be
we would like it to be printed out if it
is divisible by three,
actually if it is divisible by three
would like it to be printed out if it is
not divisible by three we would not like
it to be printed out so I made a bit of
a mess they're
saying that anyway
let me just go ahead and do this
so this is all you need to do if it's
not equal to 0
meaning that if ten was
2/3 that would be nine with the
remainder of 1, 1 is not equal to 0 and
and for the continue statement shall be
executed so really
we're just gonna
reverse here and we've reversed
the loop here the print
statement that still remains the same so
no big deal. Let's go
ahead and run this
and you will see, 18,
15, 12, 9,6,3 only
numbers that are divisible by three are
being printed out all the numbers that
are not divisible by three, are not gonna
be printed out so if it is not divisible
by three it's being
printed out there there
you go, so sorry if it
is divisible by three
it's been printed out you have 18, you have 15,  you have 20, you
have 9 you have 6 and you have 3, 3
is divisible 16 is visible 9, 12, 15, 18
there are all divisible
by 3 while in
the other example all
the numbers that
were divisible by three were not being
printed out here all the numbers that
are divisible by 3
are being printed
out sorry if I made
a bit of a mess a
moment ago in my
explanation, but I'm
sure you can figure
it out it's really
all depends on this one here, this one
states with whether you want the numbers
to be divisible by three or if you
want to filter the numbers that are not
divisible by three, they are divisible if
the remainder is equal to 0, they are not
divisible if the remainder is different
from zero. Anyway I bet you farewell and
in the next tutorial will jump into the go-to so called loop,
not exactly a loop but
as I said, so called
loop. I bet you all
farewell and hope to see you then.